---
title: "Decred Releases DCRDEX v0.5 Making Secure Atomic Swap-Powered Trades More Accessible"
date: 2022-09-28
sortDate: 2022-09-28
draft: false
icon: "announcementsDefault.svg"
---

**[Chicago, IL Sep 28, 2022]** Decred (DCR), a sovereignty and privacy
maximizing currency, today announced the release of its decentralized exchange
DCRDEX v0.5. Key features of the release include support for Electrum light
wallet software for Litecoin (LTC) and Bitcoin (BTC), and a built-in Decred
wallet, making DCRDEX significantly more accessible.

With this release, an LTC-BTC market has become available and ETH support should
go live shortly. “These high volume trading pairs will bring awareness to the
need for peer-to-peer atomic swap DEX software that can bridge layer 1 chains
directly - without auxiliary tokens or chains, without giving up self-custody,
and without trading fees,” said Jonathan Chappelow, Lead Software Developer at
Decred.

DCRDEX v0.5 includes several new privacy capabilities. The release includes
support for ZCash (ZEC), using zcashd. Users who are most serious about privacy
can now use their ZEC full node wallet. The latest Litecoin Core software
(v0.21) is also supported, which includes private addresses (MWEB). DCRDEX now
supports using mixed account configurations with Decred’s dcrwallet and
Decrediton wallets, allowing Decred's privacy features to be used automatically
when trading.

DCRDEX remains the only decentralized exchange of its kind, with no intermediary
tokens, trading fees, escrow vaults controlled by third parties, or centralized
wallet data services. Each trade is a direct peer-to-peer atomic swap, and every
component is open source.

The exchange has no traditional gatekeepers. Any project can get its
cryptocurrency supported by integrating it onto DCRDEX. “We’re holding true to
the set of principles that matter the most to people who take cryptography and
privacy seriously,” continued Chappelow. “All trades settle directly on each
asset's decentralized network, without handing over custody of the funds to a
third-party or collecting trading fees.”

These properties make DCRDEX much like a bulletin board where users trade with
each other and less like a typical exchange where the exchange must take control
of the funds.

For more information visit [decred.org](https://decred.org/) or
[dex.decred.org](https://dex.decred.org/).

## About Decred ([decred.org](https://decred.org))

Decred is Money Evolved. By combining battle-tested Proof-of-Work with an
innovative take on Proof-of-Stake that places coin holders in charge of shaping
the future, Decred is able to adapt to challenges and innovate at a rapid pace.
You acquire influence in Decred by putting “skin in the game”. Decred’s
security, privacy, scalability, and decentralized treasury empower stakeholders
and provides them with the tools needed to enhance their financial sovereignty.