---
title: "Decred Makes Consensus Change to Further Decentralize $128M Treasury"
date: 2021-04-12
sortDate: 2021-04-12
draft: false
icon: "announcementsDefault.svg"
---

> Built-in Governance Enables the Project to Evolve Without Hard-Forks

**[Chicago, IL April 12, 2021]**  Decred (DCR), a digital currency that
emphasizes security, privacy and scalability to empower stakeholders, today
announced the passage of a vote to further decentralize its treasury, currently
worth $128M. In 2018, the project gave the community the power to vote on how
treasury funds are spent with the launch of Politeia, it’s off-chain proposal
system. The new process will enable stakeholders to review the contractor payout
each month and vote on whether to approve it via their wallet. This will greatly
increase the transparency of treasury spending and eliminate the risk of
treasury fund theft, which improves security. It will also further empower
stakeholders who will be able to veto or approve all treasury spending.

The move to further decentralize the treasury is the latest example of Decred’s
built-in governance system, which allows it to make changes to consensus rules
while avoiding community-splitting hard forks. The vote was enabled with the
launch of Decrediton v1.6 in January and passed April 9 with 83.18% of ‘yes’
votes. The new rules will be activated in approximately 26 days (7,264 blocks).
Previous examples of consensus changes made by the project include modifying the
stake difficulty algorithm and integrating the lightning network.
“Cryptocurrencies need a way to evolve, scale and adapt to stay relevant and
meet the needs of stakeholders,” said Jake Yocom-Piatt, Co-Founder and Project
Lead at Decred.org. “Decred’s governance system enables us to do this and it’s
rewarding to see it empowering our community once again to make decisions,
particularly consensus changes, that are in the best interest of all - not just
a select few.”

The news comes following several recent DCR price surges after the launch of the
project’s decentralized exchange, DCRDEX, in October, news of Decred’s use in
Brazil’s municipal elections in November and the launch of Decrediton v1.6, one
of the project’s largest technological developments to date, in January.

For more information visit [decred.org](https://decred.org/).

### About Decred (www.decred.org)

Decred is Money Evolved. By combining battle tested Proof-of-Work with an
innovative take on Proof-of-Stake that places coin holders in charge of shaping
the future, Decred is able to adapt to challenges and innovate at a rapid pace.
You acquire influence in Decred by putting “skin in the game”. Decred’s
security, privacy, scalability, and decentralized treasury empower stakeholders
and provides them with the tools needed to enhance their financial sovereignty.
