---
title: "Decred’s Position as Money Evolved Further Cemented by Three New Features"
date: 2021-01-25
sortDate: 2021-01-25
draft: false
icon: "announcementsDefault.svg"
---

**[Chicago, IL January 25, 2021]**  Decred (DCR), a digital currency that
emphasizes security, privacy and scalability to empower stakeholders, today
announced the addition of several major new features to its Decrediton wallet.
In one of the project’s largest technological developments to date, Decrediton
v1.6 will enable a vote to give the stakeholders full on-chain control of a
sizable treasury, currently valued at $35 million, integrate its opt-in privacy
system and provide access to Lightning Network payments. The news comes
following several recent DCR price surges after the launch of the project’s
decentralized exchange, DCRDEX, in October and news of Decred’s use in Brazil’s
municipal elections in November. “Collectively these technological developments
cement Decred’s position in creating a cryptocurrency that is truly
decentralized, secure and sustainable - aligning with the original ideals of the
space,” said Jake Yocom-Piatt, Co-Founder and Project Lead at
[decred.org](https://decred.org).

### Decentralized On-chain Treasury

The launch marks the project’s bold move to further decentralize its treasury,
which receives 10 percent of every block reward. In 2018, the project gave the
community the power to vote on how treasury funds are spent with the launch of
Politeia, its off-chain proposal system. If the new vote passes, stakeholders
will be able to review the contractor payout each month and vote on whether to
approve it via their wallet. The new process will greatly increase the
transparency of treasury spending and eliminate the risk of treasury fund theft,
which improves security. It will also further empower stakeholders who will be
able to veto or approve all treasury spending. “Once again Decred is taking
steps to ensure it is governed by the collective intelligence of its community
as opposed to a central planning committee,” added Yocom-Piatt. “The sovereignty
of our users is unmatched in the crypto space.”

### Privacy

Decrediton v1.6 also includes Decred’s opt-in privacy system, Stakeshuffle,
which allows users to anonymize their DCR via coin mixing. The mixer uses a
peer-to-peer protocol called CoinShuffle++. No third parties have access to the
coins or know which outputs belong to which peer, so they’re never at risk of
theft or surveillance. The opt-in privacy feature has been available via command
line for more technical users since August 2019, and as a result, Decred has the
highest adoption rate of opt-in privacy cryptocurrencies, at 29% of the current
DCR supply. Decred expects adoption to increase significantly with the
Decrediton integration. “By giving our users added privacy, we enhance their
financial security and sovereignty, in addition to the project’s,” continued
Yocom-Piatt. “Privacy also makes the project substantially more resilient
against malicious actors, which will magnify our sustainability in the long
term.”

### Lightning Network Payments

The third major feature of the new wallet is Lightning Network integration,
which enables near-instant low-cost off-chain transactions. Lightning opens a
myriad of use cases that were previously not well suited to on-chain
transactions, such as micro-payments which allow for new business models that do
not rely on third parties acting as intermediaries. “The ability to process
transactions off-chain is a substantial development for the project and will
have a significant impact on Decred’s scalability, particularly with mainstream
adoption,” added Yocom-Piatt.

For more information visit [decred.org/release](https://decred.org/release)

### About Decred (www.decred.org)

Decred is Money Evolved. By combining battle tested Proof-of-Work with an
innovative take on Proof-of-Stake that places coin holders in charge of shaping
the future, Decred is able to adapt to challenges and innovate at a rapid pace.
You acquire influence in Decred by putting “skin in the game”. Decred’s
security, privacy, scalability, and decentralized treasury empower stakeholders
and provides them with the tools needed to enhance their financial sovereignty.
